<!-- Answers to the Short Answer Essay Questions go here -->

1.  Describe Middleware, Sessions (as we know them in express), bcrypt and JWT.
    
    Middleware is often a function or piece of software that we use to connect different pieces of software or different components of an application. An example of middleware is the bcrypt library. We use this software as a middleware to encrpyt passwords when they are created and then store that data on the database. Other examples of middleware include CORS and Redux-Thunk. Sessions are how the server/database knows that a user is authorized to accesss certain content within our application. A session is created when a user logs in and it stores information about the user that the application can reference. If a user has a valid session, we can then have our application grant accesss to certain data, actions, or routes that could not otherwise be seen. Bcrypt is a js library that we use to encrpyt user passwords so they are not stored as plaintext on the database. Bcrypt has its own hash functions that create encrypted passwords, however the cool thing about it is that you can manually change the number of times the algorithm is performed by changing the number of salt rounds. The algorithm alternately passes the password as the key, followed by the salt as the key. This allows us to make the process arbitrarily slow, by increasing the number of salt rounds, and can deter attempts to hack the process and gain access to plain text passwords. JSON Web Tokens(JWT) are a way to push authorization over to the client and free up the server from having to perform that task. When a user logs in, a JWT is created for them and passed back to the user. This token is then sent by the user every time they make a request to the server or the database. The token is verified by the server and grants the user access to the requested route/data. It is then passed back to the user when the response is sent. When the user logs out, the token is destroyed and the user no longer has access to the routes. These tokens essentially take the place of sessions to give us authorization access for a given period of time.

2.  What does bcrypt do in order to prevent attacks?

    Bcrypt has its own hash functions that create encrypted passwords, however the cool thing about it is that you can manually change the number of times the algorithm is performed by changing the number of salt rounds. The algorithm alternately passes the password as the key, followed by the salt as the key. This allows us to make the process arbitrarily slow, by increasing the number of salt rounds, and can deter attempts to hack the process and gain access to plain text passwords.

3.  What are the three parts of the JSON Web Token?

    The three parts of a JSON Web Token are the header, the payload, and the signature. The header contains the the type of token and the hashing algorithm used. The payload contains the claims, or the information about the user and other metadata. The signature is the encoded header, the encoded payload, a secret, and the algorithm specified in the header. We use the signature to ensure that none of the data was changed along the way and verify user info.
